---
title: "Docker for Developing and Deploying SPAs"
date: "2017-10-03"
layout: "hero"
---

# Introduction

Nowadays it’s become quite popular to automate and provision projects using Docker. But one of the things that hasn’t been detailed in much depth is how this applies to modern day SPAs.

The following describes a solution to how we can achieve both deployment & development using Docker.

_Note: [create-react-app](https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app) is being used for this example_

## The Problem

You’re currently building a node app that will generate some static content which needs to be served.

With many variables being at play during the deployment of new applications it is often asked for a reproducible version of your build.

One of the ways to minimize those errors is to containerize your applications. Using Docker you can have a more predictable deployment.

But it doesn’t come with its own questions:

* How should I structure my Dockerfile?
* How do I serve my files?
* How do ship a minimal version of my app?

## The Solution

### Initial Attempt

One of the ways of solving this issue would be to create a Dockerfile that builds your static assets
and have nginx to serve it.

```Dockerfile
FROM ubuntu
RUN apt update

# I'd like some coffee w/ milk, please
RUN apt install nodejs
RUN apt install nginx

COPY ./src/app /app
WORKDIR /app

# Second coffee
RUN npm install

# Build that app
RUN npm run build

# Some nginx conf
COPY ./nginx.conf /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/default
CMD nginx
```

Now you could run this in production using:

`docker run -d -p <host_port>:<internal_port> <image_name>`

Or in development:

`docker run -d -p <host_port>:<internal_port> <image_name> npm start`

And you could ship your image to a docker registry:

`docker push my-image`

But this has several flaws:

* Your container has multiple concern: It’s considered best practice to have docker containers only do one thing
* You're building a complete image but might not need to do so if you're developing
* You're shipping the whole image
* You're not reusing the images provided on the docker registry

### A Better Approach

Create a Dockerfile who's main concern is to be able to run your app :

```Dockerfile
# You don't even need to install Node
FROM node


COPY ./package.json /app/package.json
# Or yarn.lock
COPY ./package-lock.json /app/package-lock.json

WORKDIR /app
RUN npm install
```

You'll notice that your app is not copied over. The only purpose of this Dockerfile is to have all the tools required to build and develop.

If you wanted to start developing you could:

```bash
docker build -t my-image .
docker run -it -p 3000:3000 -v `pwd`:/app my-image npm start
```

But I'm guessing you probably want to ship your code, so let's look at how this can be achieved:

```Dockerfile
# Wait what!? Docker multi-stage builds that's what
FROM my-image as builder


# Copy App Code
COPY ./ /app

# Build
RUN npm run build

#  This is what matters
FROM busybox:latest

COPY --from=builder /app/build /app/build
VOLUME /app/build

CMD ["sh"]
```

```sh
docker build -t my-image .
docker build -t my-build -f Dockerfile.build
```

What have you just done?

Well, you've basically created an image to provision your build environment.

Once the image finished building the assets they just got copied over to a teeny tiny busybox image.
That's it! You've created a minimal image containing just the build of your project.

### Serving the Files

Once you've created a build of your code you still have to create a volume that will contain your compiled source code. 

```sh
docker run --rm --mount source=my-volume,target=/app/build my-build
```

After that, you'll be able to mount it to an nginx container

```sh
docker run -it -p 3000:80 --mount source=my-volume,target=/usr/share/nginx/html nginx
```

# Conclusion

I used to ship 1GB+ images which was making some people cringe (and for good reasons). Now, I send a 7MB image which includes the busybox layer.
Not only were we able to drastically reduce build and push time, we also were able to separate the concerns of developing and shipping code.

Thank you for reading.

# References

https://docs.docker.com/engine/userguide/eng-image/multistage-build/#use-multi-stage-builds

https://docs.docker.com/engine/admin/volumes/volumes/

https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app 